How is that, everyone?
Little uncomfortable, little weird
if you haven't used Vim before,
like why can't I use my mouse?
So let's go and walk through the exercise
and I'll tell you why Vim and why we're
gonna use Vim today for editing our files
and not some of the other solutions.
So I'm gonna jump back
to my terminal here.
Write clear, so the instructions were
to navigate to your home directory.
I am here, pwd, and I'm gonna make
a directory called temp again.
So make your temp.
Well, maybe I didn't delete it.
Last time, okay, and
I'm just gonna make it again to temp.
All right, on mkdir,
if you wanna make an extended,
you wanna follow it so if I wanna
just tip if you wanna say mkdir -p.
So I can say tepm/foo/bar.
Read only files, how did I get there?
Ls TMP, maybe I do the Rockmount, will
look this up, because now I need to know.
>> Do a ./ for temp.
>> Let's try the ./.
And let's use the arrow key
to jump up to my history.
Good call, ./.
So now when you navigate in the temp,
we'll see foo, we'll see bar.
So the -p will let you make extended
file system down and down and
down instead of make a directory.
Go into that directory,
make another directory.
Go into that directory, et cetera.
And thanks for
the tip on the dot, in this case.
So next, we're going to open Vim.
So we can say VI,
I think we can all say Vim.
We'll try them.
Yeah, you can say Vim.
You can save VI, they both work.
So now we are in command mode,
so we can't really do anything.
If you touch keys, you might get into
a weird state like macro mode or
things like that.
We just say I, so now I'm in insert mode,
we can see at the bottom it says insert.
And now I'm just gonna say hello,
not a whole lot there.
That's really groundbreaking
programming here.
So I need to get out of command or
I need to get out of insert mode now.
So I'm gonna hit escape and
I'm gonna hit Shift Colon.
And I say WQ if I wanna write and quit.
And now, I can say cat test.
Hey, it says hello, that's awesome.
So a common way of, this will happen
to you at some point, I promise.
You will say,
I edit this file blah blah blah blah blah.
I don't really like that,
so you can hit escape U.
Once were back into primary mode,
say U undo, pretty cool.
Now, what if you say, hey,
I don't really wanna save this.
So the challenge with Vim is if
you do something, hello world, and
you hit Escape, and you're like, I just
wanna quit, so I'm just gonna say Q.
It's gonna say, hey,
you didn't save your file.
So if you say Q, bang,
that means do what I say.
That means you're forcing it.
So I've definitely done that many
times where I'm editing a file and
I didn't mean to.
The undo doesn't work for some reason.
And I'm like, what do I do?
I don't want to save this.
Just to bang.
And if you ever get stuck in, and you
will, don't worry, Vim feels unnatural.
If you get stuck,
escape cubing just we talked about.
It's a common joke on the Internet,
you get stuck in Vim.
It's really easy to do
cuz people don't know.
They're like,
just open this file and edit it.
They read the tutorial of mine, but
they don't really go into more
detail about how all that works.
There's a course by the Primagen,
also a Netflix engineer.
It's called Vim fundamentals.
And if you can see the length,
it's four hours of Vim.
Four hours of Vim, so
you can go really, really deep.
We spent what, ten minutes on it.
That's really all we need to know for
today, but
you can go really deep and
come really productive if you want to.
Fair warning, the people that I've seen
at work use Vim are really efficient.
But It takes a long time and
dedication to become good at it,
cuz it's just not a natural way
of programming for most people.
But if you do,
you will become very efficient at it.
There's also links here about Vim.
There's an entire wiki dedicated to Vim,
if you're wondering how
hardcore people get.
There's a cheat sheet telling you how to
navigate around how to find things very
quickly and then Open Vim is a nice set of
animated examples and things like that.
So again, like we said at top of this
course, everything we're doing here has so
much more complexity that we're just
not gonna touch because we could spend
an entire day on most of these topics.
We could spend an entire day on shell
scripting and things like that, and
how to use your terminal.
We won't do that today.
We're learning just enough to
know what we need to do and
to get you some familiarity with kind
of how all these systems tie together.